>> Sarah Drasner: So one of the things
that we talk a lot about in
these things is balance and symmetry.
So having something be harmonious
by being mirrored on both sides.
And don't worry,
we're gonna talk about asymmetry too,
this is not the only way of working.
So you can see things that use balance and
symmetry in art.
This is a Damien Hurst painting.
We can see it in architecture.
I'm gonna use architecture references
a few times because I think it's one of
the older, showing that this has
kind of gone through human history.
But also the investment, right?
To build something like this and
decide we're gonna go for symmetry,
and have people work on it for
1,000 years, yeah,
that's an investment in symmetry,
[LAUGH] right?
You feel like you spend a lot
of time on a weekend project.
Woo, this is a lot of
investment in symmetry.
There are some really great Dribble
shots that show things like balance and
symmetry.
But even in these,
we're starting to get a sense of where
asymmetry might start to leak in.
So if you look at the one on the left
by Ben Kocinski, you start to
have the way that maybe instead of
having all the colors line up exactly or
breaking that symmetry to keep
the rhythm in your eye moving around.
So it's not super flat.
And the really nice thing about symmetry
is that when you do break that,
your eye goes right there.
So if you want to draw people's attention,
and
you're employing something like symmetry,
you can break it.
And then have people call people's
attention to a certain area.
So in this design,
everything kind of lines up,
everything kind of lines
up in a Monument Valley.
But then they really wanna bring
you over to that tunnel, so
they kind of break that idea of symmetry
and then that's where your eye goes.
So websites can often get these kind of
ideas of symmetry over and
over and over again.
You can also see where they break the
symmetry in order to call your attention
to a call to action.
So anything that's bright that
shows a different piece of
that composition is another
way of drawing attention.
But here's where symmetry
kind of falls flat.
Things can get really symmetrical and
it does look very ordered, but
it also starts to kinda look
a little boring, right?
I like these sites, they're okay.
These are demo sites by the way,
I'm not picking on any businesses.
They're okay, but I wouldn't go tell
someone about them later, right?
I wouldn't be like, my God,
you have to see this site [LAUGH]
that I saw the other day.
It looks just like all the other
sites I saw the other day [LAUGH].
So there are really great ways of
presenting yourself professionally
using symmetry, but sometimes it
starts to look really kinda basic.
So breaking out of that.